.\" Man page describing chbspasswd
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2013-2014, Charles H. Leggett
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv3+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii chbspasswd.1
.\"
.TH CHBSPASSWD 1 "2013-12-13" chbspasswd "User Manual"
.SH NAME
chbspasswd \- generates a password which is easy to remember and hard to guess
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chbspasswd [-a type,count] [-b type,count] [-c type] [-h] [-i type,count] [-l minimumLength,maximumLength] [-n count] [-s type,count] [-w count] [-x]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B chbspasswd
is a password generator inspired by XKCD 936: Password Strength and xkpasswd.net. It can generate a customized password that is easy to remember and hard to guess.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP -a
type,count
.br
Specify the type and count of a pad to be placed AFTER the words in a password. The type should be either: D (or DIGITS), S (or SPECIAL), or M (or MIXED). The count should be a number with a value greater than or equal to 1.

Specifying DIGITS will include count single numerical digits. SPECIAL will include count special characters. MIXED will include a count of mixed digits and special characters.
.IP -b
type,count
.br
Specify the type and count of a pad to be placed BEFORE the words in a password. The type should be either: D (or DIGITS), S (or SPECIAL), or M (or MIXED). The count should be a number with a value greater than or equal to 1.

Specifying DIGITS will include count single numerical digits. SPECIAL will include count special characters. MIXED will include a count of mixed digits and special characters.
.IP -c
type
.br
Specify the type of capitalization to be used. The type should be either: I (or INITIAL), U (or UPPER), L (or LOWER), M (or MIXED), or S (or SAME).

Specifying INITIAL will return words with the first letter in uppercase. UPPER will return words with all letters in uppercase. LOWER will return words with all letters in lowercase. MIXED will return words with mixed case. SAME will return words with the same capitialization as stored in the dictionary.
.IP -h
Print a help message and exit.
.IP -i
type,count
.br
Specify the type and count of pads to be placed INSIDE between the words in a password. The type should be either: D (or DIGITS), S (or SPECIAL), or M (or MIXED). The count should be a number with a value greater than or equal to 1.

Specifying DIGITS will include count single numerical digits. SPECIAL will include count special characters. MIXED will include a count of mixed digits and special characters.
.IP -l
minimumLength,maximumLength
.br
Specify the minimum and maximum length of words to be selected from the dictionary.
.IP -n
count
.br
Specify the number of passwords to create.
.IP -s
type,count
.br
Specify the type and count of separators to be placed between the words and pads in a password. The type should be either: S (or SAME), R (or RANDOM), or one of these valid separators: ~ . - _ = + :. The count should be a number with a value greater than or equal to 1.

Specifying SAME will use the same separator of count characters between each word and pad. RANDOM will use a random separator of count characters between each word and pad. A specific valid separator will be used count times.
.IP -w
count
.br
Specify the number of words to use in each password.
.IP -x
Override all other options and return a well known password that you have already memorized.
.B ;-)
.\" Implementation planned for v0.2
.\".SH FILES
.\".I ~/.chbspasswdrc
.\".RS
.\"Per user configuration file. See
.\".BR chbspasswd (5)
.\"for further details.
.SH EXAMPLES
$ chbspasswd
.br
MilkNightSuddenlyDriver
.P
$ chbspasswd -w 3 -s .,1
.br
Parent.Brief.Central
.P
$ chbspasswd -w 2 -b d,1 -s .,1 -i m,2 -a s,1
.br
8.Special.^3.Frozen.#
.SH AUTHOR
Charles H. Leggett <charles@solarturtle.net>
